DEMO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KmHYT65II1o

Q:  WHAT IS THIS THING?

A:  Recently, my laptop's monitor developed a rectangular "borked region",
    36 pixels in width running the full vertical length of my monitor,
    horizontally roughly in the centre. All of the pixels in this region
    are stuck white.

    I'm not a hardware guy.  I *am*, however, a C programmer, and one who
    happened to have some spare time between semesters, so I decided to look for
    a software solution.  This is my first-shot hack.

    This patch, when applied to one of the source files in the Xorg server,
    causes Xorg to shift all of the pixels from the beginning of the borked
    region over to the right by the width of the borked region, so that nothing
    on the monitor is obscured.

Q:  HOW DOES IT WORK?

A:  X can be configured to use one of the Linux framebuffer devices for drawing.
    The driver for this, fbdev, supports a 'ShadowFB' option that instead sets
    up a framebuffer in system memory, to be later copied into video memory.  My
    understanding of the motivation for this was historically to improve
    performance of workloads that were heavy on reads of video memory.  Anyway,
    the shpacked.c shadowUpdateProc turns out to be a nice place to slip in and
    fiddle with the logic responsible for copying video data from the system
    memory framebuffer to the actual video framebuffer.

Q:  WHAT'S ARE THE OBVIOUS, HUGE DISADVANTAGES?

A:  You lose the rightmost pixels of the screen - as many as were shifted.  This
    doesn't really bother me that much (definitely less than losing that many in
    the middle of the monitor).

    You also lose hardware acceleration, which I actually think hurts more.

Q:  HOW DO I USE THIS?

A:  If, somehow, you find yourself in the same position I was in...

    1) Get a copy of the sources for the Xorg server, verion 1.15.1.  I run Ubuntu,
       and did so with
           apt-get source xorg-server

    2) Apply the patch file in this repository to miext/shadow/shpacked.c
           cat shpacked.diff | patch shpacked.c

    3) Rebuild and reinstall the server.  For me, this meant
            dpkg-buildpackage -us -uc
            cd ..
            sudo dpkg -i xserver-xorg-core_1.15.1-0ubuntu2.7_amd64.deb

    4) Configure your X to use the fbdev driver, with the 'ShadowFB' option
       enabled.  I've included my xorg.conf in this repository for reference -
       search for 'fbdev' to find the relevant section.

In terms of intellectual property:
    - I've included the license that came with the Xorg source package I
      modified when creating the patch.
